
This folder contains source files and scripts that are needed to support ADDB
integration in S3 server.

ADDB allows to collect very detailed run-time statistics about s3server and
Clovis performance, without significant influence on resource consumption and
performance impact.

  Contents:
    * plugin/ -- source code of the plugin (see details below).

Details.

Mero ADDB is a subsystem which allows to efficiently store certain run-time
metrics.  They are called ADDB log entries.  Every entry is time stamped (with
nanosecond precision), and contains up to 15 unsigned 64 bit integers.
Applications can store any integers there that can later be analyzed.  The
convention is that the first integer is an "action type id" (see enum
S3AddbActionTypeId).  This ID serves later as a means to distinguish between
different kinds of log entries that we save to ADDB.  These ID are allocated as
ranges in Mero sources, every application should use IDs from designated range.

For ADDB logs which show life cycle of a specific request (be it S3 API
request, or Clovis request, or Mero FOM) the convention is that second integer
in an ADDB entry is a unique ID of this request.  It must be unique within a
given action type id.  If possible, the combination (activity type id, request
id) should be unique across the cluster -- this will allow to combine ADDB logs
from the entire cluster.  But this is not a hard requirement, especially for
cases when we only need to analyze ADDB logs of one single s3server instance.

To enable ADDB logging in S3 server, it needs to be launched with --addb
command line switch.

ADDB logs are stored in binary format in server folder in /var/motr, e.g.

  /var/motr/s3server-0x7200000000000000:0/./clovis_addb/o/100000000000000:2

Note that logs are not immediately flushed to disk, so ideally you should stop
s3server and wait till it completes, before you start parsing ADDB logs.

To parse ADDB logs, you will need m0addb2dump utility, which is a part of Mero
(it is also included in Mero RPM).  The typical command to parse ADDB logs in
development environment would be:

  s3_path="your/path/to/s3server.git"
  $s3_path/rs3/third_party/mero/utils/m0addb2dump -f \
     -p $s3_path/bazel-bin/libs3addbplugin.so -- \
     /var/motr/s3server-0x7200000000000000:0/./clovis_addb/o/100000000000000:2 \
     > dump_s.txt

This dump_s.txt is the text representation of ADDB log entries.

Note that command line above refers to libs3addbplugin.so.  This shared library
is called a "plugin".  This plugin is a part of s3server distribution.  It
implements parsing rules which define the structure of s3server-specific ADDB
entries, so that Mero utility (which is not aware of S3 server specifics) can
still parse s3-specific ADDB logs.

This dump_s.txt file can then be further parsed by Mero ADDB tools, but this is
yet to be defined (those tools already exist, but do not yet support
customizations to analyze s3 server logs).
